---
layout: post
title: "Filter your search"
order: 5
---


Once you have a results list from an initial query you can use our filters to further refine your search.  Your results list will change each time you apply a limit.


Clicking on any of the listed terms within a filter will automatically apply that result as a filter and you will be prompted to choose *"limit to"* or *"exclude"*; if you want to choose more than one term within a specific filter you must first check the boxes next to the terms you want to choose and then choose the desired application ( **and**, **or** or **exclude**) from the **apply** box in that section.

  * *Authors*: here you may chose to limit your search to include or exclude individual authors.  To do this choose one or more authors and the *apply* function will activate.  Here you can choose to "and", "or" or "exclude" authors from your resulting list.
  * *Collections*: here you may chose to add results from the database(s) that were not selected in your original query.  You may also chose to exclude a database that was initially chosen. Note that all databases are automatically included in the one-box search on the Modern Form, but only the Astronomy database is automatically included on the Classic Form.
  * *Refereed status*: here you may chose to include or exclude refereed or non-refereed publications.
  * *Keywords*: here you may chose to narrow your results by including or excluding keywords that were found in the results of your original query.
  * *Publications*: here you may chose to narrow your results by including or excluding journals that were found in the results of your original query.
  * *Bib Groups*: here you may chose to include or exclude results from different Bib Groups within the ADS.
  * *SIMBAD Objects*: here you may choose to include or exclude results that contain SIMBAD object types or individual objects.
  * *Data*: here you may chose to include or exclude results that contain data in various archives (e.g. CDS, HEASARC, CXO, NED).
  * *Vizier Tables*: here you may chose to include or exclude articles that have Vizier Tables.
  * *Grants*: here you may choose to include or exclude grants by funders or fund numbers.
  * *Publication Type*: here you may choose to include or exclude records based on the document type.




### Example

1. Search for *author:&ldquo;Huchra, John"*.
2. Open the author filter; you will get a list that includes "Geller, M" and "Illingworth, G." If you want the articles in which "Geller, M." is a coauthor with "Huchra, John" you would click on the name "Geller, M." in the list.
3. If you want the articles in which either "Geller, M." or "Illingworth, G" were coauthors you would click the boxes next to both of their names and choose "or" from the dropdown "apply" box.
If you want the articles in which both "Geller, M." and "Illingworth, G" were coauthors you would click the boxes next to both of their names and choose "and" from the dropdown "apply" box. (There should be zero results for this query!)
