---
layout: post
title: "Export Results"
order: 3
---

### Export Formats

Use this button to export your search results in different formats.  Currently available options are ADS Classic, BibTeX, AASTeX and Endnote.

### The ADS Custom Format

The custom format feature allows you to output ADS data in a completely user-defined format. For example, the following format

{% raw %} `%l (%Y), %j, %V, %p.\n` {% endraw %}

produces a reference of the form: 

`Vinodkumar, Dharssi, I., Bally, J., Steinle, P., McJannet, D., & Walker, J. (2017), Water Resources Research,  53,  633.`

where specifiers *l*, *Y*, *j*, *V*, and *p* are, respectively, indicators of author list, year, journal name, volume, and page numbers, and *\n* is a new line indicator.

The custom format also allows you, for instance, to adapt your reference format to the requirements of a specific journal, or to build other types of output like HTML formatted references. For example, the format for Icarus is: 

{% raw %} `%ZEncoding:latex\\bibitem[%2M(%Y)]{%R} %10I\ %Y.\ %T.\ %j %V, %p-%P.\n` {% endraw %}

which produces a reference of the form:

`\\bibitem[Vinodkumar, et al.(2017)]{2017WRR....53..633V} Vinodkumar, Dharssi, I., Bally, J., Steinle, P., McJannet, D. and Walker, J.\\ 2017.\\ Comparison of\nsoil wetness from multiple models over Australia with observations.\\ Water\nResources Research 53, 633-646.`

As can be seen from the above examples, the format is specified as a string using a syntax similar to the one used by the C-programming *printf* statement. The format string is composed of zero or more directives: ordinary characters (not %), which are copied unchanged to the output; and conversion specifications, for any of the fields found in the bibliographic record to be formatted (e.g. authors, title). 

Furthermore, using custom format, you can format your output as a csv file. For example, the following format 

{% raw %} `%ZEncoding:csv %ZHeader:'Author,Year,Title,Journal' %G,%Y,%T,%J` {% endraw %}

would create the four specified columns, listing your results under the column heading. Note that if no column heading is specified in your custom format, the export adds the headings based on your field selections.

For author field *l* (please see table below for all author formats) there are optional parameters: *n.m*. If the number of authors in the list is larger than *n*, the list will be truncated and returned as "author1, author2, ..., author*m*, et al.". If .*m* is not specified, *n*.1 is assumed. The format is as follows:
  
{% raw %} `%[n.m]l` {% endraw %}.


#### Examples

The default format is the AASTeX format:

{% raw %} `%ZEncoding:latex%ZLinelength:0\bibitem[%4m(%Y)]{%R} %5.3l\ %Y, %j, %V, %p.\n` {% endraw %}

which produces a reference of the form: 

`\bibitem[Rester, et al.(1989)]{1989ApJ...342L..71R} Rester, A.~C., Coldwell, R.~L. \& Dunnam, F.~E., et al.\ 1989, \\apj, 342, L71.`

The format for Icarus is: 

{% raw %} `%ZEncoding:latex\\bibitem[%2M(%Y)]{%R} %10I\ %Y.\ %T.\ %j %V, %p-%P.\n` {% endraw %}

The format for MNRAS is: 

{% raw %} `%ZEncoding:latex\\bibitem[\\protect\\citename{%1h}{%Y}]{%R} %8.3g,%Y,%q, %V,%p\n` {% endraw %}

A format to create list of records with hyperlinked title is: 

{% raw %} `%ZEncoding:html<P>%a %Y, %J <A href="%u">%T</A>\n` {% endraw %}

A format to create a list of records with hyperlinked bibcode, authors, title, journal, volume, page, year for use in latex: 
    
{% raw %} `%ZEncoding:latex\\item \href{%u}{%R} %A: \textit{%T,} %j,%V,%p (%Y)` {% endraw %}

The same format as above but encoded for use as a rich text document (rtf) which can be edited in textedit, word, etc. 
    
{% raw %} `%ZHeader:"{\\rtf1\n\n" %ZFooter:"}"%zn. {\\field{\\*\\fldinst HYPERLINK "%u"}{\\fldrslt %R }} %A: \\i %T,\\i0%q,%V,%p (%Y)\\line\` {% endraw %}


#### Author formats

There are 16 author formats in the custom format. Please see [this spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1q68Ea-i0ZlsILnXWoY93VHZoyrgphfSpAbNqoX-nxdA/edit?usp=sharing) for details.


#### Other formats

Specifier | Field  | Comments
--- | --- | --- 
**B** | Abstract | prints out the abstract if it is available 
**C** | Copyright | prints out the copyright statement if available 
**c** | Citation count | outputs the number of citations to the article 
**D** | Publication Date | prints out the Publication date if available 
**d** | DOI | outputs the Digital Object Identifier of the article if available 
**E** | Electronic Data Table Address | prints out the electronic data table address if available 
**F** | Author Affiliation | prints out the Author affiliation if available 
**J** | Journal | prints out the journal name 
**j** | Journal | prints out the journal name if available, if an AASTeX macro for the journal is available, the macro is printed instead 
**Q** | Journal | prints out the full journal information if available 
**q** | Journal | prints out the journal abbreviation 
**K** | Keywords | prints out the keywords if available 
**P** | Last Page | prints out the last page number of the article if available 
**p** | First Page | prints out the first page number of the article if available 
**pp** | Page Range | prints out the page range numbers of the article if available 
**R** | Bibliographic Code | prints out the bibliographic code if available 
**S** | Reference Source | prints out the reference source if available 
**T** | Title | prints out the title if available 
**U** | URL | prints out the URL of the abstract as a complete hyperlink with the bibcode as the anchor in the form: <a href="url">bibcode</a>  
**u** | URL | prints out the URL of the abstract in the form: https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/#abs/bibcode/abstract 
**V** | Volume | prints out the volume if available 
**W** | Publication Category | prints the publication category, currently available categories are: MISC, BOOK, INBOOK, PROCEEDINGS, INPROCEEDINGS, ARTICLE, PHDTHESIS, MASTERSTHESIS, TECHREPORT
**X** | arXiv e-print number | prints the identifier corresponding to the paper's e-print, as assigned by the arXiv 
**x** | Comments | prints any of the comments available for the record 
**Y** | Year | prints out the publication year if available 

Note the "\\" character is used to specify special characters, as in a *printf* format (i.e., "\n" is a newline, and "\t" is a tab). 

#### Output Field Specifier

The output field specifiers are added to the beginning of the custom format as described below. 

* **zn**: Enumeration 

    This format outputs the sequence number of the record in the output 

* **Z**: Command format 

    This is a special format directive. It must be the first command specified in a format string, and there can be multiple *%Z* directives at the beginning of the string. While the *Z* tag produces no output, it allows you to specify the value of certain variables with corresponding parameters. It has the following syntax: **%Zcommand:parameter**. The parameter can be a number, a word, or a string, depending on the command. If it is a string, it must be enclosed in double quotes. The available commands are: 

    * **Encoding:word** This specifies the encoding of the output. Available encoding parameters are: 
        * **unicode** (default): UTF-8 encoding of all unicode characters. 
        * **html**: This encoding converts characters in URLs to hex notation, and & to &amp;. Outside URLs, the characters &, <, >, and " are converted to &amp;, &lt;, &gt;, and &quot;, respectively. 
        * **latex**:  This encoding converts all special Tex characters into their Tex escape sequences. For instance '\\' is converted to '$\backslash $', '$' is converted into '\\$', '^' is converted into '\\^{}', etc.
    * **Linelength:number** This specifies the output line length (default is 80 characters). Use a line length of 0 to avoid line wraps. 
    * **Header:&ldquo;string&rdquo;** This specifies a header that will be output once before the data records. 
    * **Footer:&ldquo;string&rdquo;** This specifies a footer that will be output once after all the data records are output. 
