---
layout: about
title: "ADSUG Charter"
order: 2
---

The ADS Users Group (ADSUG) advises the ADS on the operations of the project, and recommends changes and improvements to both its services and procedures in order to maximize the scientific productivity of the community it serves. The ADSUG advocates for the user community and provides suggestions regarding content curation, technical infrastructure, management, and priority setting. The User Group is advisory and makes its reports to the ADS Principal Investigator (PI).

The ADSUG meets at least once a year. After each meeting, the ADSUG summarizes its deliberations in a written report to the PI, which is posted publicly on the ADS website

The ADSUG has a membership of approximately ten individuals chosen by the PI. The composition consists of a broad constituency of users, including scientists and representatives from the library and digital repository communities. To balance continuity and new input, members are appointed for a nominal three-year term starting on the date of the first meeting attended. In consultation with the chair, the PI may ask a member to serve for one more year. The PI and chair may invite representatives from other closely affiliated projects to join the ADSUG temporarily whenever deemed necessary.

The chair is nominated and appointed by the PI for a one-year period. The PI may ask the chair to serve for additional one-year periods. The chair is assisted by a vice-chair, who is expected (but not mandated) to serve as chair the following year.

Names of committee members and the meeting schedule will be widely disseminated so that ADS users will have the opportunity to discuss their concerns with committee members before the meetings. Individuals interested in serving in the committee are encouraged to register their interest by submitting their name for consideration to the PI and/or the ADSUG chair.

The PI, ADS Project Scientist(s), NASA Discipline Scientist(s), and ADS Project Manager also attend meetings of the ADSUG.
