---
layout: post
title: "Metrics"
order: 3
---


Currently the following metrics are provided for a list of publications.  If you select records from your search results, the metrics will be displayed for the selected articles.  If you do not select any records a dialog box will appear and you may select all of your results (to a maximum of 3000) or adjust the number of papers to be analyzed by using the slide bar (choosing a number (n) on the slide bar will return the metrics for the first n papers in your current result list.)  

   * Number of papers 
   * [Normalized paper count](#normalized-paper-count)
   * Number of citing papers 
   * Total citations 
   * [Normalized citations](#normalized-citations) 
   * Average of citations 
   * Median of citations 
   * [h-index](#h-index) 
   * [g-index](#g-index) 
   * [i10-index](#i10-index) 
   * [e-index](#e-index) 
   * [m-index](#m-index) 
   * [tori-index](#tori-index)
   * [riq-index](#riq-index)

Note that we do not remove self-citations based on author name, because of obvious author disambiguation problems. We apply a list-based removal of self-citations.



###Normalized paper count

For a list of N papers (i=1,...N), where Nauthi is the number of authors for publication i, the normalized paper count is the sum over 1/Nauthi

###Normalized citations

For a list of N papers (i=1,...N), where Nauthi is the number of authors for publication i and Ci the number of citations that this paper received, the normalized citation count for each article is Ci/Nauthi, and the 'normalized citations' for this list of N papers is the sum of these N numbers.

###h-index

Hirsch's h-index is the largest number H such that H publications have at least H citations. It attempts to measure the productivity and impact of a researcher in a single number. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hirsch_index" class="urlextern" title="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hirsch_index"  rel="nofollow">Wikipedia entry</a>

###m-index 
The m-index is the h-index divided by the time (years) between the first and most recent publication.

###iN-index (where N is 10 or 100)

The iN-index is the number of publications with at least N citations.

###g-index

Given a set of articles ranked in decreasing order of the number of citations that they received, the g-index is the (unique) largest number such that the top g articles received (together) at least g2 citations. 

###tori-index

The total research impact of a scholar (tori) is calculated using the reference lists of the citing papers, where self-citations are removed. The contribution of each citing paper is then normalized by the number of remaining references in the citing papers and the number of authors in the cited paper. The tori-index is defined as the amount of work that others have devoted to his/her research, measured in research papers. (See <a href="http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2124" class="urlextern" title="http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2124"  rel="nofollow">arXiv:1209.2124</a>)

###riq-index

The research impact quotient (riq) equals the square root of the tori-index, divided by the time between the first and last publication, multiplied by 1000  (See <a href="http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2124" class="urlextern" title="http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.2124"  rel="nofollow">arXiv:1209.2124</a>)

###read10-index

Read10 is the current readership rate for all an individual's papers published in the most recent ten years, normalized for number of authors (See: <a href="http://labs.adsabs.harvard.edu/adsabs/abs/2005JASIS..56..111K/" class="urlextern" title="The Bibliometric Properties of Article Readership Information" ref="nofollow">Kurtz et al. (2005), The Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, Vol. 56, p. 111</a>)

