# SAO/NASA ADS Terms and Conditions of Use

Use of the SAO/NASA ADS services implies that the user has read and agrees to the following terms and conditions:

1. Full-text articles and abstracts of papers available from the ADS databases are copyrighted by the respective publishers and are subject to all applicable copyright protection under the laws of the United States and other countries. The reproduction of full-text articles or abstracts requires express written permission from the publisher.

2. Individual users may download, store and print copies of such abstracts and articles for personal use only and provided that such copies are not sold or redistributed.

3. Users may not perform systematic downloads of articles, abstracts, or tables of contents for any purpose, whether commercial or not, without the written permission of the ADS. This includes indiscriminate, mass downloads of search results and the use of robots.

4. The ADS makes reasonable efforts to ensure that the contents of its archives are accurate. However, the ADS does not guarantee the completeness, accuracy or usefulness of its databases and search interfaces. The ADS is not to be considered liable for any delay, downtime, or other failure of performance in providing its services.

### Acknowledgements

If you wish to acknowledge the services provided by the ADS in a publication, kindly use a phrase such as the following:

> This research has made use of NASA's Astrophysics Data System Bibliographic Services.