---
layout: post
title: "Earth Science Graduate Student User Tutorial"
order: 1 
category: learn
---

### Earth Science Graduate Student User Tutorial: Creating a Personal Bibliography

## Task 1: Search for Your Papers (First Author Search)
**Description:** Learn how to search the SciX database for records where you are the first author.

To return results where you are the first author, in the search bar type your name in the first author search format.

Example: (replace "Smith, J" with your name).

{% capture query %}
author:"^Smith, J."
{% endcapture %}
{% include_relative _blocks/search-bar-embed.html 
    content=query 
    url="https://scixplorer.org/search?q=author%3A%22%5ESmith%2C+J.%22&sort=score+desc%2Cdate+desc&p=1&n=10" 
%}


## Task 2: Claim Papers with ORCID
**Description:** Learn how to disambiguate your papers by claiming them with your ORCiD. Some of the search results may return papers by authors other than yourself. ORCiDs offer a way to uniquely identify researchers, and it is considered best practice to obtain an ORCiD and associate your papers with that ORCiD. 

Sign into your ORCiD on SciX by clicking here:


Select "Claim ORCID" next to the papers you recognize as your own.



## Task 3: Add Results to Personal Library
**Description:** Learn how to add your search results to a personal library for easy access and management.

{% include_relative _blocks/add-papers-to-library.html %}

## Task 4: Search for Your Last Author Papers (Ordered Author Search)
**Description:** Learn how to search for papers where you are a particular author position, claim them with ORCID, and add them to your personal library. To search for papers where you know your author position on the paper, you can use the position operator on the author field. For papers where you are the last author, you can use `-1` as the position number to indicate the last position.

{% capture query %}
pos(author:"authorname",position_number)
{% endcapture %}
{% include_relative _blocks/search-bar-embed.html 
    content=query 
    url="https://scixplorer.org/search?q=pos(author%3A%22authorname%22%2Cposition_number)&sort=score+desc%2Cdate+desc&p=1&n=10" 
%}

Claim these with your ORCID and add them to your personal library. 

## Task 5: Search for Your Remaining Authored Papers and Further Disambiguate Using Advanced Search
**Description:** Learn how to search for papers you are an author on and use advanced search to find your papers. 

To further narrow down your search results as necessary, specify fields like title, abstract, or keywords.

Example: (replace with your name and a relevant keyword for your work).

{% capture query %}
author:"^Smith, J." AND abs:"paleontology"
{% endcapture %}
{% include_relative _blocks/search-bar-embed.html 
    content=query 
    url="https://scixplorer.org/search?q=author%3A%22%5ESmith%2C+J.%22+AND+abs%3A%22paleontology%22&sort=score+desc%2Cdate+desc&p=1&n=10" 
%}


Options you can use to further disambiguate your papers and narrow down the search results to the most relevant outputs include_relative:
- **Collections:** By default, records from all database collections (astronomy, physics, and general) are searched from the one-box modern search interface. Limit or exclude collections here as necessary.
- **Refereed:** Limit your search to refereed or non-refereed records.
- **Years:** Located in the right-hand column, the year sliders allow you to select a publication year or range of publication years to include_relative or exclude.
- **Publications:** If the journal or other publication name is known, select it at this facet.
- **Data:** Filter based on the availability of specific links to data products.

## Task 6: Further Disambiguate Using Paper Network
**Description:** Learn how to use the paper network to disambiguate search terms and identify papers most likely associated with your work. You can also find relevant papers using the paper network.


Claim any additional identified papers with your ORCID and add them to your public library.

## Task 7: Export Library Contents to BibTeX File
**Description:** Learn how to export the contents of your personal library as a BibTeX file.

**Steps:**
1. Opening your SciX libraries block
2. Selecting a library and viewing it as search results block

The search results can be exported as citations in a variety of formats. These include_relative AASTeX, ADS, BibTeX, BibTeX ABS, DC-XML, EndNote, Icarus, and IEEE.

